## Preamble

- Title: The one who is conscious
- Subject Matter: Geometric lines, shapes, and (most importantly) eyes.
- Medium: Paper, ink, Gel-pens
- Project Goals: Learn the creation process of radial designs, the use of print-making in a project, and the use of Gel-pens in a formal piece of artwork.

## Criteria A: Investigating

I initally planned my work by looking at example designs of what I could do; both from what Mrs. Anthony had shown and from what my friends had brainstormed. From there, I brainstorm my own piece where I realized most of it was lines and geometric shapes, and that would inspire my design to follow that principle. As a result, my final project contains a lot of **lines**, the most basic unit of art, and those lines would connect at points to form **shapes**. Those two basic elements are what would form the cohesive artwork that I created. My artwork has **unity** as all lines have either an end to an edge, or connect to other lines, connecting the entire piece together as (figuratively) one line. The design is simple and therefore has a lot of **harmony**, the lines each do not have different designs, and my choice of **color** was very simple for a reason. This artwork obviously has a lot of **balance** as the entire premise was to create a radial-based design. The flat background compared to the dynamic and rich colors of the gel pens allow for my artwork to contain a lot of **contrast**, with the eyes being black against a white piece of paper, making the central point visible against the background. Continuing that idea, the eyes also have a lot of **emphasis** as almost all lines in my artwork expand from the eye; therefore the lines guide the viewer's eyes to the center, that being the eye. Finally, there is a lot of **pattern** in this design; the lines regularly repeat across the center (it being radial after all), and so the design feels symmetrical and fits the criteria of being radial.

## Criteria B: Developing

This project was the first project that included printing as a required skill, and therefore I had to learn how to do print. I learnt a lot from Mrs. Anthony as well as my good friend Saanvi; I believe she had previous experience with printing. My prints initially did not come out well, but progressively, they became better and actually felt more "aesthetic" than poor. As a result, I decided to put all of my prints on the back of my project as I believe it shows progression and how everything is not perfect the first try. This was also the first project that required the use of gel pens, a type of pen that I had never used before in my life. The gel pens are unique as the ink is very fluid compared to something like a ball-point pen, and therefore, there were a lot of techniques to create a good line. I learnt that I had to apply a certain amount of pressure to allow the ink to come out as consistent as possible, it can't be too hard or else the tip will tear into the paper and previously drawn ink, but not too light as ink would flow in an uncontrolled manner. In the end, it taught me a lot about handling gel pens, and I believe it has a good use for other art supplies that are similar to the properties of gel pens. I think that the most challenging part of this project was the printing; it was difficult and required a lot of efficiency and speed, as well as a little bit of luck. It seemed that my luck was never the best as the prints were never truly truly perfect, but they were satisfactory to me. My friends both had more skill and more luck compared to me, so I am quite envious of their great prints. Another challenging part was using gel pens on the hard black piece of paper. For some reason, it seems the ink does not come out so easily when touching that paper, and so it required multiple laps of tracing to get some color out of it. It also required barely enough pressure to allow some ink to flow out, but that would lead to inconsistent "ink spots", and so I would try to smoothen it out by using that ink spot to further trace the line. My final project is definitely a different to what I had brainstormed and that was mostly due to the fact that the sizes of my brainstorm and final project were not the same, which left a lot of white space, and so I decided to improvise and fill them in with other ideas. It was also due to the fact that the design would be difficult to follow precisely what I had brainstormed because of the measurements and dimensions not aligning properly in the larger paper and more limited work space. Finally, I must acredit a lot of the help of this design to the _Al-Nasir Muhammad Mosque_ as it had geometric designs that were very similar to what I had designed in my own piece of art.

## Criteria C: Creating/Performing

The driving emotion behind my artwork is the emotion/desire of being conscious, that is, understanding the world, one's place in the world, and what it means to live. The work features a lot of geometric design that has it's inspiration roots from the _Al-Nasir Muhammad Mosque_ and its own designs on the inside of the mosque. The desire of being conscious is present with the use of open eyes as being "awake", which has the figurative meaning of being conscious. This artwork is geometrically simple and minimalistic, qualities that I learnt about myself throughout this project. This project taught me my own desire to be minimal and to be simple, both in the things that I draw, and more importantly, in life. The more things one adds to his life, the more complex it will become. However, this project was not 120% perfect and so if I were given the chance to re-do this project, I definitely would re-do my prints to make them more consistent and make the lines that I carved in the stamp to be more straight. This was the biggest part of the project that I really wish I could had redone better, as it really made the back look a lot more jagged and ungeometrical compared to the geometrical front.

## Criteria D: Evaluating

I personally believe that the reason that I made this artwork was: to question, to self-express, and for decoration. This project fundamentally was about my own artstic expression in my own style about the desire of being "conscious". Due to the nature of my own self-expression, this artwork can also be seen as other's questioning my values -- the artwork is odd because the eyes give it character, yet the surrounding of the eye is odd and uncanny; it questions the viewer as to the reason of the eyes. The artwork can also be seen for the use of decoration due to it's simplistic and minimalist design -- it has the ability to blend in with the (typically) very simple and minimal homes that people reside in. Therefore, the artwork has the ability to blend in with the simple background such as a wall, making it effective as a decoration.

## Progress Photos
